---
published: true
layout: blog-item
category: blog
permalink: blog/europeana-beacon-crowdfunding
title: Europeana Beacon is going crowdfunding!
imageurl: 
  - "/img/blog/europeana-beacon.jpg"
tags: 
  - Crowdfunding
  - Tourism
secondarytags:
  - Europeana Creative
---
*This is a guest post from Simone Figlié, one of the team behind the Europeana Beacon (eBe) project.*

When we first started our Europeana Beacon project we knew it would be quite challenging, but we intended to pursue it anyway. Our goal was to combine the rich content of Europeana with the new iBeacon technology[1], giving the locations near our user the ability to speak for themselves.

The main idea behind Europeana Beacon was to let people walk by a monument or a particular point of interest in a city and have the app alert the user if there's something around worth looking at. The user can then decide whether or not to dig into the content, and here's when the Europeana content comes in handy. The app can pull pictures, videos or historical facts from Europeana associated with the location identified by the beacon, giving the user a whole new perspective about what surrounds him.

Playing with the data we discover that the Europeana database, as vast as it is, was not sufficient to accomplish the goal we had in mind, so we started developing our own back end to serve the App. This will allow content providers (town municipalities, tourism offices, and so on) to provide their own content as well as link to existing Europeana content, and much more important pair a beacon device with an actual object in the city. Plus, they could create engaging content for the App, like Scavenger Hunts, Trivia, or provide other useful informations about the places to visit nearby, or where one can go eat or have a drink, as well as transportation informations.

Then, why stop there? We thought that we could even enrich the Europeana database with info coming directly from our "clients", giving back the community a lot of very quality content data as well!

### What's the main obstacle to our vision? 

For all of this to happen we need the active participation of municipalities or local tourism offices who want to "beaconize" their cities, placing the beacons in the appropriate areas and providing good quality content. We wanted the app to be free for the end user - our main goal is for anyone to go to a city and discover its beauty at no cost - so we needed funding for developing the platform. At FutureEverything 2015 in Manchester, we met with the great people of Goteo, that opened the crowd funding possibilities to us, and that's what we're pursuing right now.

This crowdfunding campaign will help us get noticed by those municipalities which intend to invest in such technology, and with a small investment have at least part of the city beaconized and became among the first cities supported by our platform.

### The rewards

We have put together rewards specifically aimed at early contributors within towns and cities which will

- enable them to have access to the platform during the beta stage, 
- get our help to provide content and install the beacons,
- ensure they are a part of some development decisions regarding the data we will display in the app.

This will allow them to be among the first to be supported by our app at launch.

For developers around the world, success with our crowdfunding will mean we can release all the UX/UI Design as open source, as well as sketches and artworks, with a comprehensive development diary (?) discussing the technical aspect of the development process.

### More information

- [about the project - www.europeanabeacon.com](http://www.europeanabeacon.com)

- [about the crowdfunding campaign on the Goteo platform: goteo.org/project/europeana-beacon](https://goteo.org/project/europeana-beacon)

[1]iBeacon is an exciting technology enabling new location awareness possibilities for apps. Leveraging Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE), a device with iBeacon technology can be used to establish a region around an object. This allows the app to determine when it has entered or left the region, along with an estimation of proximity to a beacon.
